DOCSP-43533 - Version 6.9 (#902)
mongodb/docs-node: source/whats-new.txt

* :ref:`Version 3.7 <version-3.7>`
* :ref:`Version 3.6 <version-3.6>`

.. _version-6.9:

What's New in 6.9
-----------------

- Support for {+mdb-server+} 3.6 is deprecated and will be removed in a future driver release.

> - The driver natively supports explicit resource management for cursors and the

Reviewer: S: can you add whitespace between items? Keeps things a bit neater, IMO (nit)

>   ``MongoClient``, ``ClientSession``, and ``ChangeStream`` objects. On compatible Node.js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ``MongoClient``, ``ClientSession``, and ``ChangeStream`` objects. When using a compatible Node.js
```

>   versions, you can use explicit resource management with the ``cursor.stream()``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  version, you can implement explicit resource management by using the ``cursor.stream()``
```

  method and ``GridFSDownloadStream`` class.

  To learn how to use explicit resource management, see the
  :github:`v6.9.0 Release Notes <mongodb/node-mongodb-native/releases/tag/v6.9.0>` on
  GitHub. For more information about explicit resource management, see the
  :github:`ECMAScript Explicit Resource Management Proposal </tc39/proposal-explicit-resource-management>`
  on GitHub.
- If you're using Node.js 18.13 or later, you can pass the ``autoSelectFamily`` and
  ``autoSelectFamilyTimeout`` options to the ``MongoClient`` constructor. When the
  ``autoSelectFamily`` option is ``true``, the driver automatically selects between
  an IPv4 or IPv6 connection. The ``autoSelectFamilyTimeout`` option specifies the
  timeout, in milliseconds, for the driver to select the connection family.

  The following code example shows how to use these options:

  .. code-block:: javascript
     :copyable: true

>      const client = new MongoClient(process.env.MONGODB_URI, { autoSelectFamily: true, autoSelectFamilyTimeout: 100 });

Reviewer: S: not sure we use an env variable in most other places. In this instance, I think you can omit the connection string parameter altogether and the driver uses localhost 27017. Also, newline where possible to reduce the scroll

Author: The API docs says URL is required? I can just use localhost.

> - The ``MongoClient`` constructor accepts the ``allowPartialTrustChain`` option. This option
>   controls the X509_V_FLAG_PARTIAL_CHAIN OpenSSL flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The ``MongoClient`` constructor accepts the ``allowPartialTrustChain`` option. This option
  controls the ``X509_V_FLAG_PARTIAL_CHAIN`` OpenSSL flag.
```

- The ``ConnectionCheckedOutEvent`` and ``ConnectionCheckFailedEvent`` now include a ``durationMS``
  property. This property indicates the time elapsed between the start and end of a
  connection checkout operation.
- If you're using Node.js 18 or later, the driver ignores the ``cryptoCallbacks`` option
  and uses callbacks defined in C++ instead, significantly improving encryption

>   performance. This change is available in ``mongodb-client-encryption`` v6.1.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  performance. This change is available in the v6.1.0 version of the ``mongodb-client-encryption`` package.
```

- To enhance security, the options specifying the spawn path and arguments for
  ``mongocryptd`` must be own properties of ``autoEncryption.extraOptions``.
  This change helps prevent global prototype pollution bugs related to these options.
  For more information about own properties, see
  `Object.hasOwn() <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/hasOwn>`__
  on MDN.

> - The driver officially supports Queryable Encryption (QE) range queries. To use this
>   feature, your app must use ``mongodb-client-encryption`` v6.1.0 or later and must connect
>   to {+mdb-server+} 8.0 or later. For more information about QE range queries, see
>   :manual:`Queryable Encryption <core/queryable-encryption>` in the {+mdb-server+} manual.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Official support for Queryable Encryption (QE) range queries. To use this
  feature, your app must use ``mongodb-client-encryption`` v6.1.0 or later and must connect
  to {+mdb-server+} 8.0 or later. For more information about QE range queries, see
  :manual:`Queryable Encryption <core/queryable-encryption>` in the {+mdb-server+} manual.
```

- The ``insertMany()`` and ``bulkWrite()`` methods accept ``ReadonlyArray`` inputs.
- The driver retries writes based on the top-level code, found in ``error.code``, rather
  than the nested code in ``error.result.writeConcernError.code``. This fixes an issue
  in sharded clusters running versions {+mdb-server+} earlier than 4.4.
- The ``LocalKMSProviderConfiguration.key`` property accepts a ``BSON`` ``Binary`` instance
  for ``AutoEncryptionOptions``.
- In TypeScript, the ``BulkOperationBase`` class reports the ``length`` getter property. 
- The ``MongoWriteConcernError`` type now preserves the original top-level code in
  ``MongoWriteConcernError.code``.
- The ``cursor.toArray()`` method empties the current batch of documents into the array
  before calling the async iterator again. This change avoids the delays associated
  with ``async``/``await`` execution and improves performance by up to 5% on average.
  This optimization doesn't apply if you provide a transform to the ``cursor.map()`` method
  before calling the ``toArray()`` method.

> - Fixes mixed use of the ``cursor.next()`` method along with ``for await`` syntax.

Reviewer: S: can you provide more info about what this means? ALso fix vale error:
```suggestion
- Fixes mixed use of the ``cursor.next()`` method with ``for await`` syntax.
```

> - Fixes the ``enableUtf8Validation`` when deserializing BSON.

Reviewer: S: more info needed. is there an error?

Author: added more

- The driver natively supports explicit resource management for cursors and the
  ``MongoClient``, ``ClientSession``, and ``ChangeStream`` objects. When using a compatible Node.js
  version, you can implement explicit resource management by using the ``cursor.stream()``
  method and ``GridFSDownloadStream`` class.

  To learn how to use explicit resource management, see the
  :github:`v6.9.0 Release Notes <mongodb/node-mongodb-native/releases/tag/v6.9.0>` on
  GitHub. For more information about explicit resource management, see the
  :github:`ECMAScript Explicit Resource Management Proposal </tc39/proposal-explicit-resource-management>`
  on GitHub.

- If you're using Node.js 18.13 or later, you can pass the ``autoSelectFamily`` and
  ``autoSelectFamilyTimeout`` options to the ``MongoClient`` constructor. When the
  ``autoSelectFamily`` option is ``true``, the driver automatically selects between
  an IPv4 or IPv6 connection. The ``autoSelectFamilyTimeout`` option specifies the
  timeout, in milliseconds, for the driver to select the connection family.

  The following code example shows how to use these options:

  .. code-block:: javascript
     :copyable: true

>      const client = new MongoClient(url,
>        { autoSelectFamily: true, autoSelectFamilyTimeout: 100 });

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     const client = new MongoClient(uri,
       { autoSelectFamily: true, autoSelectFamilyTimeout: 100 });
```

- The ``MongoClient`` constructor accepts the ``allowPartialTrustChain`` option. This option
  controls the ``X509_V_FLAG_PARTIAL_CHAIN`` OpenSSL flag.

- The ``ConnectionCheckedOutEvent`` and ``ConnectionCheckFailedEvent`` now include a ``durationMS``
  property. This property indicates the time elapsed between the start and end of a

>   connection checkout operation.

Reviewer: S: I believe this change require updates to this section: https://deploy-preview-902--docs-node.netlify.app/fundamentals/monitoring/connection-monitoring/#connectioncheckedout

Author: Thanks for pointing that out. It's a strange situation when the original ticket explicitly says docs changes [Not Needed](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/NODE-5459), because it adds a lot of time to version update work when there should have just been a Docs ticket in the first place

  in sharded clusters running versions {+mdb-server+} earlier than 4.4.

- The ``LocalKMSProviderConfiguration.key`` property accepts a ``BSON`` ``Binary`` instance
  for ``AutoEncryptionOptions``.

- In TypeScript, the ``BulkOperationBase`` class reports the ``length`` getter property.

- The ``MongoWriteConcernError`` type now preserves the original top-level code in
  ``MongoWriteConcernError.code``.

- The ``cursor.toArray()`` method empties the current batch of documents into the array
  before calling the async iterator again. This change avoids the delays associated
  with ``async``/``await`` execution and improves performance by up to 5% on average.
  This optimization doesn't apply if you provide a transform to the ``cursor.map()`` method
  before calling the ``toArray()`` method.

- Fixes mixed use of the ``cursor.next()`` method with ``for await`` syntax.

- Adds the ``enableUtf8Validation`` option when deserializing BSON, which was
  inadvertently removed in {+driver-short+} v6.8.

- Adds the ``durationMS`` property to the ``ConnectionReadyEvent`` class. This property
  represents the time between the connection creation event and when the ``ConnectionReadyEvent``

>   fires.

Reviewer: S: add the field to https://deploy-preview-902--docs-node.netlify.app/fundamentals/monitoring/connection-monitoring/#connectionpoolready
